>> Bianca: Next thing we're
gonna talk about hash table.
So a hash table is not ordered,
so we don't sort hash tables or
anything like that.
I guess hypothetically you could,
but if you were needing something
with an order this is not the data
structure that you would choose but
It is really good for fast lookups and
having keys that are flexible.
So an array index is a numerically based,
which can be a constraint, which
might not be appropriate data structure
for the problem that you are solving.
With a hash table, depending on the
underlying, depending on the interface,
at the very least your
keys can be strings.
But with new ES6 data structures,
we can also store functions and
objects as keys if youuse like a set or a
map data structure, so that's pretty cool.
It's becoming more and more flexible.
So the inference there was that
a hash table implementation
in Javascript is an object,
is a map, is a set with,
there are like differences
between those data structures but
the underlying idea's the same.
Quick look up, quick insertion with
keys that can be more than numbers,
and how does that work?
So we need to be able to
translate our keys into some memory
address, cuz we need to go directly there.
So when we are looking for
something we either have
to know the physical location somewhere or
whether it is on disk or in memory.
You could think of this
as some mathematical
formula that says I can just
point here and that's that value.
I don't need to loop through all of these
memory spaces to find a particular value.
So when we think about
a constant time look-up,
which means we go directly to
the place that it's stored,
we need to somehow mathematically
calculate that location, right?
And obviously that calculation is really,
really complex but we can abstract
it away just to understand how it works
and the core of it is a hashing function.
So the hashing function takes the key,
in this case, we're gonna look at strings.
It'll take a string and
it's gonna hash it to a numerical value
that in our case is going to
be an index of an array, but
under the hood it might be
a memory address, yeah.
And so
hashing function is just a function.
For every same input,
it always gives the same output, so for
every Cristiano is always
gonna give 2 every time.
That's the property of a hashing function.
Hashing functions are used in
all kinds of like, you know,
you're hashing for security and
things like that, passwordw, etc.
This is a very similar concept except that
we are using it to hash to a numerical
value in some range and
the range is the size of our hash table.
So this hash table is the size of 25,
so our hashing function,
no matter what we give it, it's always
going to give us a value between 0 and 25.
>> Speaker 2: And we specify the range?
Or it is always gonna be 25?
>> Bianca: So when you are interacting
with a hash table you don't even have to
think about it all but when you are
implementing it, you have to specify it.
And then once it becomes full,
then you need to make it bigger, and
there are strategies on how we do this.
So typically what you do
is once your hash table becomes 50% full,
you want to double it.
And that's been found like
mathematically to be the most efficient,
so once it's half full you double it and
then you rehash those
values to 0 to 50, so
then it gets redistributed.
>> Speaker 2: Do you need a new hash
function then to like, account for
the bigger size?
>> Bianca: So
the hash function should take the size.
And so, it should be the same function
except that you just passed like,
instead of 25, then you would pass 50 and
you would just rehash everything.
>> Speaker 3: What do you mean by full?
Once it gets full.
>> Bianca: Yeah, so how you define
full varies but typically, you just
count how many items, you kinda have
a length or size property under the hood.
And if you get 13
items in your hash table of size 25, then
you double it, and then you redistribute
all of your items within 50 and then
once you get to 26, you double it again.
That's the general strategy.
>> Speaker 3: Why half?
>> Bianca: Why half,
there's white papers and stuff on it.
That's just typically what you do,
but there are all kinds of different
strategies, and different implementations,
and optimizations for specific use cases.
But that's kind of like
the general on average the most efficient
way of doing it and the reason,
how they got to the half is based on
how many collisions would happen
if you're more than half full.
I don't know the specific math but
since our hashing function only gives us
from 0 to 25 there's a very high chance,
it happens a lot,
that for different keys,
you get the same hash, right, and
we'll see Anita and Antonio both has to 0.
And so we call this a collision,
and when we have a collision,
if we have many collisions, then that
can affect our run time for a look up.
And so when we think about hash tables, we
think of this concept of the average case.
In a lot of our time complexity
analysis we think about the worst case.
However, for
things like hash tables, we think
about the average case because the chance
of the worst case happening are so
slim that we don't really
even worry about it.
So that's why we say it's constant time,
even though, for
example, if we wanted to find Christiano,
we would have to go to this index.
You can imagine that this is an array,
and the value of the array has,
this is a linked list implementation but
it could be another array.
It could be a variety of different things.
The linked list tends to be a common
example of how to deal with equations.
So then we need to find Christiano,
we'd look at Charles, we look at
Cortra and then we get to Christiano.
>> Speaker 4: So, I'm not fully
clear on how do collisions happen?
>> Bianca: Yeah.
>> Speaker 4: Cuz there are inputs,
get me right,
they share the same first letter but
then they are different characters.
So why do they have the same hash value?
>> Bianca: Because whatever
the implementation of the hash function
is giving the same value,
it has to be between 0 and 25.
>> Speaker 4: When someone
decides they happen to have
the same value because
there wasn't enough space?
>> Bianca: It depends.
Here's an example of a hashing function.
You could get, so
each character in JavaScript has a code.
So it's like, in the 20's,
40's, 70's are typically
the different character codes in
Unicode that we use for JavaScript.
So you could get the character code for
each letter and add them up.
That would give you a numerical value for
that string.
And then you wanna get it within a range,
so you could mod it by 25,
and get a number between 0 and
25, something like that.
So that's one way, and you can imagine
that a lot of strings would just happen to
share the same hash value and
the frequency
in which that happens is based on
the implementation of your hash function.
There's a lot of hash functions that
are like kind of the common ones, and
it's also based on what you
expect your data to look like.
So, you know, if you expect your
data to be really long strings or
if they are gonna have a lot of
the same letters versus not.
And so if you're doing a lot of strings
that have a lot of the same letters and
a lot of the same lengths,
then counting the character code and
stuff like that might be bad.
You might wanna use
a different hashing function.
But in general, no one is gonna expect
you to implement a hashing function.
It's very like,
it's kind of like implementing
like a random number generator.
Like you should be able
to reason about it and
know what the challenges and difficulties
are but you don't necessarily need to
implement it from scratch because they're
just very difficult problems to solve.
So okay.
>> Bianca: So the things I wanted to
talk about were the hashing function.
How the hashing function works.
Collisions, how collisions work,
and then resizing, when to resize.
You guys feel like you got
those three main things?
Cool, Jodie you have a question?
You're having the question eyes.
>> Jodie: I'm not fully
clear on the hash tables.
I still need to adjust
it a little bit but-
>> Bianca: Okay, can you turn
that into a question?
>> Jodie: I don't think I could.
I think I need the.
>> Bianca: What do you
know about a hash tables?
>> Jodie: Well, my understanding was when
you said you're adding up the UTF for
that.
>> Bianca: The Unicode?
>> Jodie: Yeah.
>> Bianca: Character numbers.
>> Jodie: I don't really
understand how that would work.
>> Bianca: Yeah, so
the problem that we're trying to solve
is we're trying to turn a string into
a number within a certain range.
And so the question is what strategies
can we use to get there and so for
each letter, lets say C is like 24,
R is like 33,
I is 30, something like that.
You could loop through this string and
get all of those numbers and add them up,
let's say it's a hundred.
And then if you wanted to be
within a range of 0 to 25,
you just mod it by 25 and
then that would give you.
>> Bianca: Yeah,
it would give you the range, so.
So that's just like,
>> Bianca: But
the point is not necessarily
the implementation.
But you should just know that for every
>> Bianca: For the same string,
you wanna get the same value every
time for your hashing function,
so Anita will always return 0
when the range is 25, always.
>> Jodie: [COUGH] And so this could be
framed in a interview based on you could
have a question and it requires you to
look up certain values, or whatever,
and so, even though so far we covered
the link table, or the link list and this.
It would be like, we need something that's
gonna return something consistent like
each and every time.
So, we're like, we can't use the link list
because we gotta traverse going back and
forth, but maybe the hash table because
it's holding like an actual location,
set location.
In this case, 0 to 25.
We can almost count on that being
more reliable versus a link list and
that's why we would wanna
use the hash table.
>> Bianca: Exactly and we can use
the keys to look it up so we don't even
need to understand that it's 0,
25 because that is just under the hood.
What we do is we interact with a hash
table just like we would an object.
So for saving a value to an object,
we would say object.val equals 1, right?
And that would be an insertion and
that would be constant time.
That val would go through the hashing
function and let's say it returns 1.
Then we say in the first
index of our array,
which is what we're building a hash
table out of, we would put value 1.
And then when we want to retrieve it,
we would say object
that value and that's how we
look up a value on an object,
and then it would go through
the hashing function.
It would put val through
It would return 1 and
then it will go to that index,
it would find the value and
then it would just return 1.
So the interface is the same,
it's just a matter of understanding
how that happens so fast.
Cuz usually if we're going
to lock something up
we don't have a specific address we were
gonna have to do some sort of traversing
linear time operation, or
log in if it's sorted.
So,
>> Bianca: That's kind of
the takeaway here.